Add Learn page on Wrapped Ether (WETH) (#8203)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/wrapped-ether.md

---
title: Wrapped Ether (WETH)
description: An introduction to Wrapped Ether (WETH)—an ERC20-compatible version of Ether (ETH). 
---
---
# What Is Wrapped Ether (WETH)? {#what-is-wrapped-ether-weth}    
Wrapped Ether (WETH) is an ERC-20 token representing Ether (ETH), Ethereum’s native coin. If you use Ethereum dapps, you've likely seen tokens built using the ERC-20 standard. The ERC-20 standard offers many benefits to developers and users, especially**flexibility** (tokens can be customized for different use cases) and **fungibility** (tokens are identical and interchangeable). 

> Ether (ETH) doesn't comply with the ERC-20 standard, but there's significant demand to use it in ERC20-compatible wallets and dapps. Wrapped Ether (WETH) solves the problem by providing an ERC20-compliant version of ETH to use in dapps or swap with other ERC-20 tokens.

Reviewer: the article intro should have the lowest barrier for comprehension, i tried to rewrite it to give the gist in the easiest way possible.

Today, **nearly 3% of the circulating ETH supply is locked in the WETH token contract**—inspiring its description as the "World's Most Popular Smart Contract". WETH is also one of the most used ERC-20 tokens, especially among users interacting with applications in Ethereum's Decentralized Finance (DeFi) ecosystem. 

## Introduction to wrapped tokens {#intro-to-wrapped-tokens} 

> A wrapped token is a token whose value is pegged to an underlying asset. An amount of the original asset is deposited into a smart contract—similar to a digital bank vault—that mints an equal amount of wrapped tokens. The vault holds the deposit until you're ready to exchange your wrapped tokens for the original asset (so you can think think of a wrapped token as a redeemable IOU issued by a smart contract).

Author: I was thinking mentioning [IOUs (I Owe You )](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/iou.asp#) would make the idea of exchanging WETH to get back the deposit from the contract easier to grasp. But I agree we'll likely need to explain it first, so I've taken it out.

Wrapping ETH today requires by depositing it in a smart contract which creates an amount of wrapped ETH (WETH) tokens equal to the original deposit. You can also “unwrap” ETH by sending WETH tokens to the contract and receiving ETH in return.

In all cases, the conversion between WETH and ETH is always completed at a 1:1 ratio. Since the smart contract locks up ETH before minting WETH tokens, the value of WETH tokens in circulation is backed by ETH held in reserves. This keeps the prices of WETH and ETH relatively equal and ensures you can always swap both assets without realizing a loss. 

## Why do we need to wrap ETH? {#why-do-we-need-to-wrap-eth} 

> Common use cases for wrapping tokens include extending the functionality of a token, allowing a native cryptocurrency to behave like an ERC20 token, or allowing the use of a token outside its native blockchain. The [canonical implementation of Wrapped Ether (WETH)](https://blog.0xproject.com/canonical-weth-a9aa7d0279dd) described here is designed for the former two use cases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common use cases for wrapping tokens include extending the functionality of a token, allowing a native cryptocurrency to behave like an ERC20 token, or allowing the use of a token outside its native blockchain.
```

Reviewer: this sentence was highly confusing to me, bare in mind that the article already is difficult to read due to using lots of jargon like erc-20, tokes, smart contracts etc.

Author: I was heavy on emphasizing exactly what version of WETH we're talking about since there are so many versions of WETH out there. These tokens will have different use cases (eg. WETH on Polygon is to make ETH usable outside Ethereum) and security properties, so it seemed important to clarify. But I could simply add the link to that article in the "Why am I seeing different types of WETH?" FAQ

Author: I've also tweaked the paragraph a bit for more context (ie. "why is it important to have ETH behave like an ERC-20 token").

Reviewer: > I was heavy on emphasizing exactly what version of WETH we're talking about since there are so many versions of WETH out there. These tokens will have different use cases (eg. WETH on Polygon is to make ETH usable outside Ethereum) and security properties, so it seemed important to clarify. But I could simply add the link to that article in the "Why am I seeing different types of WETH?" FAQ

hm that distinction was unclear to me. maybe that could be more obvious, explicitly stating that. either in faq or there

Author: There are a couple of places where I mentioned it. This is from the FAQs: 

> **Why am I seeing different types of WETH?**

> Besides the [canonical implementation of WETH](https://blog.0xproject.com/canonical-weth-a9aa7d0279dd) described om this page, there are other variants in the wild. These may be custom tokens created by dapp developers or versions issued on other blockchains and may behave differently or have different security properties. **Always double-check the token information to know which WETH implementation you're interacting with.**

And this is from the security section:

> Note that these security considerations apply only if you’re using WETH issued on Ethereum. [Blockchain bridges](https://github.com/ethereum/ethereum-org-website/blob/patch-34/bridges) make ETH usable on a non-Ethereum blockchain by issuing a variant of WETH compatible that blockchain’s technical standards.

> But this introduces additional security issues other than those described previously. For example, you must also believe the bridge is secure against attacks, the bridge operator(s) won’t freeze or steal your funds, etc.

For example, the creation of Ether predates the introduction of the ERC-20 standard, which means ETH tokens don’t conform to the ERC-20 specification. Wrapped Ether (WETH) was thus created to **make ETH compatible with applications implementing ERC-20 interfaces**. 

> As a native cryptocurrency, the use of ETH is limited to transferring value and paying for computation on the Ethereum network. Transforming ETH into an ERC-20 token (WETH) increases the number of things you can do with it. Some use cases for WETH include: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some use cases for WETH include: 
```

Reviewer: moved the explanation to intro as its very well written

|            | **Ether (ETH)**                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | **Wrapped Ether (WETH)**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Supply     | **As Ethereum’s native token, the supply of ETH is managed by the  protocol.** The supply of ETH increases when Ethereum validators earn rewards for processing transactions and creating blocks.                           | **WETH is an ERC-20 token whose supply is managed by a smart contract.** New units of WETH are issued by the contract after it receives ETH deposits from users.                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Supply     | **The supply of ETH is managed by the protocol.** The supply of ETH increases when Ethereum validators earn rewards for processing transactions and creating blocks.                           | **WETH is an ERC-20 token whose supply is managed by a smart contract.** New units of WETH are issued by the contract after it receives ETH deposits from users.                                                                                                                                        |
```

> | Ownership  | **Ownership of ETH is defined and guaranteed by the Ethereum blockchain.** For example, protocol rules ensure you can always spend from an account’s ETH balance if you control the [private key](/glossary/#private-key).  | **Ownership of WETH depends on the WETH token contract.** The contract defines ownership of WETH tokens and determines the conditions under which you can access your WETH balance.                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ownership  | **Ownership of ETH is defined and guaranteed by the Ethereum blockchain.** Protocol rules ensure you can always spend from your ETH if you control the [private key](/glossary/#private-key).  | **Ownership of WETH depends on the WETH token contract.** The contract defines ownership of WETH tokens and determines the conditions under which you can access your WETH balance.                                                                                                                                            |
```

Reviewer: what conditions are those for weth? might a common question

Author: Tbh, I haven't read the WETH contract code thoroughly, but I assume the most important condition would be that users need to have some nonzero balance in the contract. Since WETH is simple, there'll be no need to check things like whether the contract is paused/active or if a particular user is blacklisted. 

But wouldn't explaining this mean taking readers deep into the weeds? I guess the idea was to keep technical information to a minimum.

- **Non-upgradeable**: The WETH contract is non-upgradeable (unlike many variants) and has remained the same since its launch many years ago. 
- **Extensively audited and tested**: Members of the Ethereum community (including auditors, developers, and security researchers) have tested the securityof the WETH contract before *and* after its launch. The WETH contract has also passed formal verification, which is considered the highest security standard for Ethereum-based applications. 

Now, while the WETH contract is considered very secure, some hypothetical attack scenarios exist including:

- **An attacker mints WETH tokens without depositing ETH (the equivalent of printing money out of thin air)**. If the attacker successfully redeems these tokens for ETH, other owners may be unable to withdraw their ETH deposits. 

- **An attacker exploits a vulnerability that allows them to drain the WETH contract of ETH deposited by users**. This would leave users with valueless WETH tokens without any backing. 

> - **A smart contract bug prevents users from unwrapping WETH and withdrawing ETH deposits.** While the chances of this happening are low, it is still a feasible scenario that could affect the safety of WETH assets. 

Reviewer: im unsure if this is necessary for this article, would be interested what others on the team think: @corwintines  @jmcook1186

Author: This section was borne out of the need to remain neutral on the topic. Sure, no one expects the WETH contract to be hacked or become buggy, but it still helps to explain feasible security risks involved.

---
title: Wrapped Ether (WETH)
description: An introduction to Wrapped Ether (WETH)—an ERC-20 compatible version of Ether (ETH). 
---

# What Is Wrapped Ether (WETH)? {#what-is-wrapped-ether-weth}    

Wrapped Ether (WETH) is an ERC-20 token representing [Ether](/eth/), Ethereum’s native cryptocurrency. [Wrapped tokens](https://academy.binance.com/en/articles/what-are-wrapped-tokens) are so-called because the original cryptocurrency is deposited into a wrapper—similar to a digital bank vault—before a wrapped version of the cryptocurrency is created. For example, wrapping Ether involves depositing ETH into a smart contract that creates an amount of WETH equal to the original deposit; you can also “unwrap” Ether by sending WETH to a smart contract and receiving ETH in return. 

Locking up ETH before minting new WETH tokens ensures every amount of WETH in circulation is backed by an equal amount of ETH held in reserves. This keeps the values of  WETH and ETH equal, such that you can convert WETH to ETH (and vice-versa) at a 1:1 ratio.

> Wrapped Ether (WETH) and other wrapped tokens are similar to [stablecoins](/stablecoins/), as their value is pegged to the value of other assets. But while stablecoins are backed by US dollars held in off-chain reserves, WETH is collateralized by ETH issued on the Ethereum blockchain.

Reviewer 2: I would delete this section. You've already said that WETH:ETH == 1:1, no need to bring stablecoins into it, especially as stablecoins are not generally backed by offchain USD but a basket of various on and offchain assets that will be complicated to explain properly.

Author: Fixed this.

As an ERC-20 token, WETH has more versatile use-cases, unlike ETH which is limited to making payments and [paying for computation](/developers/docs/gas/) on the Ethereum network. Some of the things you can do with WETH include: 

- Make payments in dapps

- [Exchange WETH for other tokens](/defi/#swaps) 

- Use WETH as collateral to [borrow funds](/defi/#borrowing-privacy)

- Supply liquidity to [lending platforms](/defi/#lending)

## How does Wrapped Ether (WETH) work? {#how-does-wrapped-ether-weth-work} 

To wrap ETH, you need to send it to a [smart contract](/smart-contracts/) that mints an equivalent amount of Wrapped ETH (WETH) for you. This smart contract acts as a custodian as it holds your ETH until you decide to unwrap WETH. You can also swap ETH for WETH directly on a [decentralized exchange](/get-eth/#dex) without needing to interact with a smart contract. 

> The process of unwrapping ETH is similar: send WETH to the smart contract and have an equivalent amount of ETH sent to your address. Whenever you redeem WETH for ETH, those tokens are [burned](https://decrypt.co/resources/what-is-a-token-burn-how-crypto-is-removed-from-circulation), which keeps the supply of WETH and ETH equal and enforces parity in prices. You can also unwrap ETH by swapping WETH for ETH directly using a decentralized exchange.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process of unwrapping ETH is similar: send WETH to the smart contract and have an equivalent amount of ETH sent to your address. Whenever you redeem WETH for ETH, the WETH tokens are [burned](https://decrypt.co/resources/what-is-a-token-burn-how-crypto-is-removed-from-circulation), which keeps the supply of WETH and ETH equal and enforces parity in prices. You can also unwrap ETH by swapping WETH for ETH directly using a decentralized exchange.  
```

Sending WETH tokens also requires a different approach: you'll have to create a transaction with the WETH token contract's address (not the recipient's address) as the destination. This transaction calls the smart contract's `transfer` function with the recipient's address and amount of tokens to transfer supplied as transaction parameters. While this transaction is recorded on the blockchain, the actual transfer of WETH tokens from one address to another occurs inside the token contract and isn't recorded directly on the blockchain (hence, it is described as an [internal transaction](https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/glossary/internal-transaction)). 

> We should also mention that you cannot pay gas for a transaction transferring WETH using WETH tokens. This may sound confusing, but less so once you understand that the Ethereum protocol specifies Ether (ETH) as the only currency for paying for computation on the Ethereum network. This is why you are advised to have some ETH in your wallet when wrapping/unwrapping ETH or sending WETH to another address. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You cannot pay gas for a transaction using WETH tokens. Only Ethereum's native token, ETH, can be used to pay gas. This is why you must have some ETH in your wallet when wrapping/unwrapping ETH or sending WETH to another address. 
```

### Uses of ETH vs WETH {#eth-vs-weth-use-cases} 

> Ether is primarily used for transferring value between users and compensating [nodes](/glossary/#node providing computational resources on the network. ETH is also used to secure the Ethereum network: validators processing transactions and producing new blocks must [deposit a bond paid in ETH](/staking/) before assuming this role. If a validator acts maliciously and attempts to subvert protocol rules, their ETH deposit will be [slashed](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/rewards-and-penalties/#slashing) (destroyed) as punishment. 

Reviewer 2: "Nodes" are not rewarded - only validators.
```suggestion
Ether is primarily used for transferring value between users and compensating validators securing the network. ETH is also used as collateral by validators. They stake ETH into a smart contract so that it can be destroyed if they act maliciously. 
```

> As an ERC-20 representation of Ether, WETH has a completely different use-case: making it easier to use ETH in dapps. Because ETH isn’t ERC-20 compatible, developers would need to create separate interfaces (one for Ether and another for ERC-20 tokens) in a smart contract. Wrapping ETH in ERC-20 standards removes this obstacle and enables developers to handle ETH and other fungible tokens within the same contract. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main use case for WETH is making it easier to use ETH in dapps. Because ETH isn’t ERC-20 compatible, developers would need to create separate interfaces (one for Ether and another for ERC-20 tokens) in smart contracts. Wrapping ETH in ERC-20 standards removes this obstacle and enables developers to handle ETH and other fungible tokens within the same contract. 
```

> With the ERC-compatible WETH, you can access more functionalities than is possible with regular ETH tokens. WETH is particularly popular for users interacting with [decentralized finance](/defi/) (DeFi) applications. At its core, DeFi is a collection of primitives that allow for trading, borrowing, and exchanging assets with others without intermediaries. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the ERC-compatible WETH, you can access more functions than with regular ETH. WETH is particularly popular for users interacting with [decentralized finance](/defi/) (DeFi) applications. At its core, DeFi is a collection of primitives that allow for trading, borrowing, and exchanging assets with others without intermediaries. 
```

DeFi enables even more complex use-cases, such as [yield farms](https://blockworks.co/what-is-yield-farming-what-you-need-to-know/) and [automated market makers](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/amm-what-are-automated-market-makers) (AMMs) that can make investment decisions—like depositing into a lending pool or executing trades—for users. But these applications need access to your funds to work, which is why ERC-20 tokens like WETH define an `approve` function (used in combination with `transfer`) that allows you to approve other accounts (mostly contract accounts) to deduct a specific amount of tokens from your balance up to a predefined limit (`allowance`). 

### Security properties of ETH vs WETH {#eth-vs-weth-security-properties}

As an asset native to Ethereum, the security of ETH is guaranteed by the Ethereum network—no one can steal your funds unless they have access to your private keys. Even in a [51% attack](https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/51-percent-attack), attackers cannot create forged transactions to transfer ETH from your address without approval. In other words, your ETH remains safe as long as your private keys are safe. 

> Wrapped Ether (WETH) is not issued and secured by the Ethereum network, so using WETH comes with different layers of risks. The security of your WETH largely depends on the smart contract holding ETH deposits and minting WETH tokens for users. Possible attack scenarios include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wrapped Ether (WETH) is not issued and secured by the Ethereum network, so using WETH comes with different risks. The security of your WETH largely depends on the smart contract holding ETH deposits and minting WETH tokens for users. Possible attack scenarios include:
```

2. An attacker could exploit a vulnerability in the contract and drain the funds of users who deposited ETH during the wrapping process. This would leave users with valueless WETH tokens without any backing. 

3. Beyond scenarios involving malicious actors, a bug in the smart contract could prevent you from unwrapping ETH and withdrawing your locked-up assets.
 
## Frequently Asked Questions about Wrapped Ether (WETH) {#weth-frequently-asked-questions} 

**Are ETH and WETH the same?**

No. Ether (ETH) is the native coin of the Ethereum blockchain, used as a unit of payment on the Ethereum network (including paying for transaction fees). Wrapped Ether (WETH) is an ERC-20-compatible version of ETH primarily designed to make ETH tokens compatible with applications built on the ERC-20 standard. 

**Do you pay to wrap ETH?**

No, you don’t pay to wrap ETH into WETH, as the assets are converted at a 1:1 ratio. However, interacting with the WETH contract to wrap ETH involves sending an on-chain transaction—and this requires paying a gas fee. You'll also pay gas when unwrapping ETH through a smart contract. 

**Are WETH and ETH the same price?**

> WETH is pegged 1:1 to the price of ETH, so the value of both assets are usually equal at any time. This peg is maintained by ensuring that every unit of WETH is backed by ETH held in reserves. Forces of supply and demand also keep the prices of ETH and WETH relatively equal: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WETH represents ETH, so the value of both assets are usually equal at any time. Since 1 WETH is immediately redeemable for 1 ETH and every WETH is 100% backed by ETH, any deviation from price equality would be immediately arbitraged away.
```

Author: > ...any deviation from price equality would be immediately arbitraged away.

This assumes the average reader is already familiar with arbitrage. Since the page is targeting relatively inexperienced readers, the supply-and-demand argument feels more appropriate. If an advanced reader does land on this section of the page, they'd easily understand we're talking about arbitrage.

> - If WETH were cheaper, more people would buy it and convert it to the more expensive ETH at a 1:1 ratio to make profit. This would drive up demand for WETH and increase the price of WETH tokens. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Expanded on the reason I think explaining the peg via supply and demand is better in my previous comment.

> - If WETH is more expensive, more people would buy ETH and convert it to WETH to sell at a profit. As the supply of WETH increases, the value of WETH tokens would drop—keeping the peg relatively stable. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Why do people use WETH instead of ETH?**

> WETH was created primarily because the ETH token doesn't comply with the ERC-20 technical standard. This made Ether infeasible for use in decentralized applications (dapps) that only support ERC-20 tokens. Unlike Ether, WETH follows the [ERC-20 fungible token standard](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) —so it can be exchanged for other ERC-20 tokens and used on applications (e.g., decentralized exchanges and wallets) that support ERC-20 interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WETH was created primarily because the ETH token doesn't comply with the ERC-20 technical standard. This made Ether difficult to use in decentralized applications (dapps). Unlike Ether, WETH follows the [ERC-20 fungible token standard](/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) —so it can be exchanged for other ERC-20 tokens and used on applications (e.g., decentralized exchanges and wallets) that support ERC-20 interfaces.
```

**Is WETH safe?**

> While WETH is safe, it isn’t as safe as holding ETH in your wallet. For example, If ETH locked in the WETH contract is stolen, the value of WETH tokens would plummet as they would have no backing assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ETH is the safest asset because it is part of the Ethereum protocol, whereas WETH is defined in a smart contract which could feasibly be hacked. WETH is generally considered a very safe asset because the contract is small, simple, well-tested and it has been around for a long time.
```
